1-One
2-2
1-Three
Data Governance: Addressing Reporting Hierarchy
Some Peer Connect members hold the view that DG should ideally be reporting into the IT function whereas the other school of thought proposes a presence of DG away from the prevalent influence of IT and/or under different models.
DG’s Existence Within the Confinements of IT
An executive director mentions that both data management and data governance were introduced within IT in their organization. Moreover, data management and data governance are managed and facilitated respectively by his office. The peer states that the former is centralized whereas the latter tends to be decentralized. Although the peer concurs with DG’s autonomous state away from the prevalent influence of IT, she also opines that the reporting hierarchy of DG is contextual in nature. She adds, “In our case, the executive team wanted the change and trusted that the IT Team would effectively execute based on the prior successes of the initiative. So, we used that platform to successfully launch the only decentralized cross-functional program in existence today.”
While highlighting the presence of a centralized function in their organization, a director of data and analytics mentions that DG is currently a part of IT through the data and analytics department. He shares that their organization is planning to revisit the reporting hierarchy. The director states, “Data governance will probably stay in IT for now to grow and nurture it. Long term view is to shift the control of data to the business while the technology will be dealt with by the IT.”
A senior manager focuses on the presence of information architects, data lake and master data teams that support the function while shedding light on different roles working under data services group in his organization. The peer who is working toward maturing data governance across the enterprise shares, “It may drive a change in the future as we try to help our business leaders view data as an asset that needs leadership at a broader level.”
